[Music]
walk us through because this is one of
those crazy stories I'd I can't imagine
how you pulled this off your first ultra
marathon which you got into like really
fast and won why you did exciting that's
incredible so this the first ultra
marathon wasn't smart at all at all just
so basically happened was I was at
military freefall school with Morgan
Latrell marcus luttrell if you guys
don't know was the lone survivor of the
guy he was in a bad op op went bad he
was the only navy so that lived long
story short you got to get the book read
lone survivor great story Morgan is
Marcus - Charles twin brother and I was
there with Marcus so what happened was
myself and Morgan were freefall school
at the same exact time Marcus was in the
worst incident in still history so I
knew that Marcus might be dead he wasn't
dead everybody was dead so I actually
bought Morgan you know I actually told
Morgan hey man your brother wasn't a bad
incident I don't know if he's alive I'll
know what's going on long story short
Marcus is alive and I go on to want to
raise money for families all these guys
died they all had kids I want to raise
money for the Special Operations Warrior
Foundation it's the foundation where
100% tuition goes to these kids to go to
college you know full tuition whatever
so I found this great foundation I'm
gonna raise money for it so I see no
what I have to Google something that's
that's evil something very hard I knew
nothing about ultramarathons
I hadn't even run a marathon I knew
nothing about this world so I googled
that you know the top 10 hardest races
in the world and what comes up is about
water 135 so hirin 35 mile race through
Death Valley in the summertime I thought
it was a stage race I thought was a race
where you run like 20 miles set up camp
you know barbecue outside and then go
run some more the next day so I called
the race director up at the race I said
hey Chris a name is Chris Causton I want
to do your race so he had a long
conversation you know I was I was much
heavier than and I hadn't put running
shoes on over a year how heavy are you
at this one I'm around between two four
to 70 whoa I'm in there I'm in that
register I've my witness buried a lot
through the SEAL Teams and I was still
team so I was a heavy guy but the long
and short of it all was I am put running
shoes on in over a year I was a big-time
power lifter I lifted weights heavy
that's what I did I got back home from
Iraq went straight to freefall school
and then this happened so I called Chris
Kaufman up on a Wednesday he says look
man the only way you can qualify for my
race is to run 100 miles at one time in
24 hours or less there happened to be a
race that Saturday so four days later
and he said if you qualify by running a
hundred miles or less in 24 hours I will
consider you my race I'm gonna cut to
the chase I signed up for this race it's
called the San Diego one day where you
run around a one-mile track for 24 hours
to see me miles you can get my goal was
100 miles so I got 2 miles 70 and I
cleared 70 miles in like 12 13 hours
pretty quickly but I was done my feet
were broken
I was stretched fractured shin splints
muscles were tearing I was in bad shape
I was eating rich crackers and drinking
that's all I had no water didn't know
what the hell I was doing out there had
on some tube socks it was just
ridiculous it was it was a clown show so
I sat down at Mile 70 and at this time I
was married and I look at my wife and I
was like I'm messed up bad
so I literally start to turn white and
when a black guy turns white you're
pretty [__] up so here I am I'm all
[__] up in this chair I'm at Mile 70
they got 30 [__] miles to go I'm
jacked up I got to go to the bathroom
and the bathrooms like 20 feet from me
support a party I can't get all the
[__] chair so I'm peeing blood down
my leg whoa pooping up my [__] back
and I got 30 miles to go and I'm I can't
stand up cuz my my blood pressure's all
messed up I've been in three whole weeks
Ranger School overcome so many obstacles
in my life this last 30 miles of this
ray
is when I realized a human being is not
so human anymore we have the ability to
go in such a space if you're willing to
suffer and I mean suffer your brain and
your body once connected together can do
anything and this 30 miles was the
life-changing moment I was out of it I
wasn't the worst pain in my entire life
I was to me on the brink of death and I
was able to chuck this 30 damn miles
into small pieces I was so driven and
I'm not gonna say motivated cuz
motivations crap motivation comes and
goes when you're driven whatever's in
front of you will get destroyed so I sat
in this chair and I was so driven to
succeed in this race and at this time
everyone's were you thinking about the
guys that died and I'm not gonna lie to
you I wasn't this became a personal
thing this became me against this race
me against the kids that called me
[__] me against me it just became
something that I took so so violently
personal and I broke this thing down
into small pieces I said okay I got to
get nutrition I gotta be able to stand
up before I can get off this curb and
golf this chair and be able to go 30
miles so I went through all these small
steps and I was able to stand up and
then from standing up I was literally
walking around with my wife at the time
and she goes you're not gonna make the
time she goes you mean you're walking
like 37 minute miles I got tomorrow 81
and the second she said that I'm not
gonna make the time I ran the last 19
miles non-stop and I can show you right
now when we get done with this matter
fact I want to show you right now this
was years ago and I had to put
compression tape on my own and I had so
this was years ago I had literally the
size of half dollars I had to get
compression tape and I taped up my
ankles and i taked up my feet and that's
I got through that race it was like a
hematoma I mean what do we what happened
was like my shins hurts so bad from
having stress fractures that's the only
way I could continue on was I taped it
so I wasn't doing the flexor motion that
that activates your shins
so I taped my ankles and my shins up and
I got that from because of my throat
hell week they were all good let me go
back to you know train anymore right
so I literally went through all the buds
my last field training with stress
fractures and shin splints and how I did
it was I would take my ankles all the
way up to my calf every morning so for
the first hour the pain was excruciating
but what happened is my feet would go
numb and I did that every single day for
six months whoa that's how I got through
my third hell because I was so broken
from the first two that the commander
said hey the CEO said this year last
time were sitting you through so that's
how I got the idea to do that so with
the right and people may listen to this
and say this guy is sadistic he's
crazies know if you know how I came up
you realized I was just a scared kid
that found Drive and passion to be
something much better than what he
thought he was that's all it is
[Music]
you